Hi there. This is Chris, and today I'm
going to show you how to log on
to the NIF computers, which are the set
of computers we have in the basement of
Gates and the computers that you're gonna use
in the lab, but, you're going to use
for all your other programs as well. And
you're gonna log in, remotely using your own
computer. So we're gonna use a program called
the terminal, which is a program built into
your Mac that allows you to, get to
the file system of your, Mac directly. And
it also has a program that allows us
to connect to, other computers, namely in this
case the Myth computers. What you're gonna do
is you're gonna go up to the top
right up here and you're gonna click on
the little spotlight icon or you can just
type command space to actually bring up the
spotlight search. And if you type terminal, this
will bring up the terminal program which you
want. What I normally do because I use
it all the time is I right click
or control click on the terminal down here
and I go to options and I just
say keep in dock and that will keep
it in the dock so I don't ever
have to find it again, it's just always
gonna be there. So here's what we do.
This is the inner workings of your Mac
right here. But we're gonna use a program
called SSH and we're going to type SSH
and then you're going to type your SUNET
ID, mine happens to be CGregg, then you
type the at symbol and then nif. Stanford
dot edu. In fact, if you're on the
Stanford campus, can leave off the stanford.edu.cgreg@myth will
work just fine. When you type, return, then
it asks you, are you sure you wanna
continue connecting? This is the only time it
will ask you that. If you answer yes
now, it will never ask you that again.
But then it will bring up a prompt
for your password. This is going be your
SUNET ID password. And, I'm going to type
it here and you'll notice that as I'm
typing it, in fact, I'm typing right now,
nothing is showing up. And this is a
security feature so that you can type your
password and nobody can look over your shoulder
and actually see it. But after I type
my password, I hit return and it logs
me in. In this case, it logged me
into myth seven. It chooses one of the
myth machines and log you into it. It
doesn't actually matter which machine you're in, but
we logged on in this case to myth
seven. And now that you're in, you can
have access to your folders. One of the
a couple I'll do a couple key commands
here and then in other videos, we'll go
through some of the key commands in more
detail. But one is the, l s command.
Actually, first first one I wanna show you
is the c d command, which is c
d, which means change directory. And the c
d command will change in directory. I happen
to have a directory called one zero seven
built already. And, it changed the directory into
that directory. Notice something here. There's a little
tilde sign. By the way, my prompt may
look a little different than your prompt. It's
very easy to change it to look similar
to this, but it gives you the directory
that you're in, which is kind of nice.
Nice to know that you're in the one
zero seven directory right now, which is on
my own, in my case it's on my
home folder. And, I just used the c
d command to actually move into that folder.
The other a couple other commands, l s
lists all the files that are in your
folder. I happen to have one, two, three,
four files in the folder. L s dash
l will list all the files, and some
other information about them like how big they
are and so forth. It will also tell
you if they're directory. So for instance, these
three files here are all directories because it
has a little d there and I can
change into the assigned zero directory as well
and do that. So so that's the cd
command. If you want to get back to
your home directory, the easiest thing to do
is just type cd enter and it will
take you right back to your home directory.
You could also type cd tilde if you
wanted to. Your home directory is located on
the AFS file system, which is Stanford wide.
In fact, if you type p w d
for print working directory, you will actually show
it shows you your entire path, which is
all the way to you. This happens to
be mine, right here and, everybody at Stanford
has one that looks like this. No matter
which myth machine you're logged on to, you
will be using the same file system. So
it's, it's kind of nice in that regard.
A couple other quick commands you might wanna
know, the clear command will clear your screen,
which is kind of nice if you want
a nice clear screen. If your screen gets
screwed up, like the colors are weird or
there's weird characters on it, you can actually
type reset, which will clear the screen in
a slightly more, low level fashion. Alright. So
now, what do you do if you wanna
log out? It's pretty easy. You just type
log out or you type, you hold down
the control key and type d and that
will log you out. If you just type
log out and then enter, that will log
you out. And that's all there is to
it. Thanks.